[SOUND] Hello,
welcome to Oracle APEX Foundations course, Getting Started with Oracle APEX module
Low Code Application Development lesson. My name is Chaitanya, I'm a product manager on the Oracle APEX
product development team. Oracle APEX is the world's most popular
low-code application development platform for enterprise applications. Using APEX you can build applications 20
times faster with 100 times less score. So all excited to learn
what low-code is and low-code application
development with Oracle APEX. Let's get started. In this lesson you are introduced to
low-code application development. First we review the challenges
that everyone faces with application development in an enterprise. You are then introduced to
low-code application development. And finally, you learn the benefits
of low-code application development. Let us start with a quick introduction
to the application development challenges that everyone
faces in every enterprise. Application development in
an enterprise can be too expensive. Every line of code you write,
there is a cost associated with it, to author, to debug, to review or
to tune, to manage or to upgrade. The bigger the task, the more people
involved, the greater complexity, the more overhead. Full stack developers are expensive, too. Application development in
an enterprise can be too slow. Your development processes need to
be able to adapt to ever changing business requirements. The days of waterfall
development are over. If you are not iterative and flexible,
then you are not on time, and you will not be able to
meet your business needs. There is minimal collaboration
between the developers, project managers,
business users, and end users. End users represented by the business
users, business users work with the analysts to gather requirements,
requirements fed to IT managers. IT managers give requirements to
developers and then they finally build. So there is no easy partnership. There is always a significant
application backlog in an enterprise. Enhancements to existing
applications are not being done, new applications are not being created,
and especially the small problems
are never being attacked. It is too expensive to dedicate
resources on these small problems and the too expensive resources to
dedicate on these small problems. So applications are never written for
them. Now let us understand what is
a local development platform. From Wikipedia, a low-code development
platform provides a development environment used to create application
software through a graphical user interface instead of traditional
hand-coded computer programming. Low-code applications or
applications developed with minimal hand coding, visual drag and
drop style development, and low-code applications are web and
mobile friendly. So what is low-code? Low-code is fast to get started with. It is easy on-ramp. You don't have to be an expert to
start building applications using a low-code application
development platform. Low-code is very productive. With minimal effort you can employ
feature-rich components in an application. Low-code is accessible to more
than just the highly trained and expensive stack developer. Low-code broadens the pool of
people in your organization who can solve business problems. Low-code is scalable. Most of the low-code applications
generally start small and then grow in complexity and
breadth of functionality. Low-code solutions are extensible, so you
are not constrained by the box you are in. Every business has custom requirements,
custom rules, and custom business flows, and functionality that is not
provided out of the box can always be included in the form of integrations,
plugins, and custom code. Low code solutions are about
delivering rich functionality to your end users with minimal effort and
minimal code. So rich functionality with less code or
doing more with less. Now that you have a good
idea about low-code, let us understand why use low-code. With low-code solutions, it takes
less effort to build applications, and so you can deliver much faster
than competing technologies. With low-code you can deliver much
higher quality applications, and these frameworks promote consistency
across the developed applications. The hallmark of low-code is
focus on business requirements, not on mundane programming. More people are able to participate and help contribute solutions
to the IT backlog. So without question,
with low-code you ultimately reduce costs. Less code, less time,
less work results in less cost. With low-code,
developers do not need to write code for things like interacting with the database,
managing session state and more. Therefore they can concentrate
on solving the business issues. In this lesson, you learned the challenges of application
development in an enterprise. You understood what low-code
application development is. And you also learn the benefits of
low-code application development. This concludes the lesson on
low-code application development. I hope you find that useful. Thank you so much for watching.